[Editorial Note: The Chief Technology Officer is Ken Dickey, a
 long-standing contributor in Lisp and Scheme circles.]

Subject: International search for Lisp programmers, Memetrics P/L (Sydney,
Australia)

Memetrics (Sydney, Australia)

As a result of new product developments and continued growth,
Memetrics is conducting a world-wide search for software engineers
experienced in Lisp or other functional programming languages and
related technologies.

Memetrics is a group of leading international engineers, scientists,
and business professionals who are working together to implement a
range of radically new presentation optimization systems using
Lisp. We have attracted substantial private and government funding and
our first product, XOS, was launched in San Francisco this week. For
more company details, see our website, www.memetrics.com

Because we're a young organization, you will have an excellent
opportunity to have an impact on the evolution of the company. We
offer a great work environment full of interesting and challenging
problems.

Required Experience and Skills

Ideally you will possess at least three years experience in an object
oriented development environment. Exposure to Lisp and CORBA in a
commercial setting would be advantageous. Candidates should be
comfortable using Unix and/or NT.  Successful candidates also must
have excellent communication skills, and be willing to work closely
within a tight-knit team. Experience with SQL would also be helpful.
	
Salary

Compensation is based on skills and previous experience in addition to
a generous pre-IPO stock option package. Australian and overseas
applicants will be considered. Come to the city of which Lonely Planet
says "...you would have to die and go to heaven before you see a more
spectacular setting for a city."

Please send resumes to jobs@memetrics.com
